I think I made my crappiest build ever.
No, literally. I built a bunch of rocks
covered in bird poop in my forever
world. And although they may look
innocent, they have some weirdly deep
lore. I was originally inspired by the
sea stacks I saw while visiting the
cliffs of Moore in Ireland and in some
photos I've seen of the Oregon
coastline, which I'm hoping to visit
soon. I thought the bird poop stains
actually added a lot of atmosphere and
character to these rocks. And I was
really happy with how it translated into
the game. But as I continued looking for
reference photos of bird crap, I ended
up flushing myself down a crazy rabbit
hole. This sort of fossilized bird poop
is known as guano. And since it's full
of plant goodies like nitrogen,
phosphate, and potassium, it makes
insanely good fertilizer. Back in the
1800s, the British controlled most of
the guano trade. So the 13th US
President, Millard Filillmore, made bird
poop a top priority. Congress passed the
Guano Islands Act of 1856, which
basically said that any American who
found a rock with guano on it in the
ocean could essentially just declare it
US territory. Eventually, synthetic
fertilizer was invented, but in the
meantime, almost 100 different tiny
islands got claimed. And somehow, some
of them still exist as US territory to
this day. So, basically, bird poop
imperialism was and is still a thing.
And the people who mine this stuff
suffered from all sorts of crazy
respiratory illnesses and horrible work
conditions. Thank goodness we don't have
anything like that in Minecraft.